So let's go over a little bit
of troubleshooting on CloudFormation.
So if you have a DELETE_FAILED status,
that means that you're trying to delete a stack,
but somehow the delete did not work.
So it could be a reason such as some resources
must be emptied before being deleted,
such as your S3 buckets.
So this is a very common exam question.
If your S3 buckets cannot be deleted,
it's because they're not empty.
So either you empty them manually,
or you use Custom Resources with Lambda function
to automate the emptying action of your S3 buckets.
Also, for example, you cannot delete a security group
if other EC2 instances are using the group.
And so therefore, if you're using, for example,
different stacks that use the same security group,
or you've done a manual attachment
of that security group to other instances
then, of course, the delete will be failing
because it cannot be deleted even
if you tried through the console.
Also, if you have too much trouble with the deletion
of a resource, you can use DeletionPolicy=Retain
and it's going to skip the deletion
of that specific resource.
If you get UPDATE_ROLLBACK_FAILED,
that means that you didn't update,
it failed, and then it tried to rollback,
and even the rollback has failed.
So this could mean several things.
This can be caused by resources changed
outside of CloudFormation.
This could be insufficient IAM permissions.
This could be an Auto Scaling Group
that doesn't receive enough signals, and so on.
So the advice here is to manually fix the error
to make sure that you've troubleshooted it and it works.
And usually, the event log is going to give you some hints.
And then, once you know the errors have been fixed,
you need to issue an API call,
called ContinueUpdateRollback.
The rollback will continue and hopefully,
because you fixed the error, the rollback
will be successful at the end.
Now, for stacksets troubleshooting, so for example,
you'll have a stack operation, it has failed,
and then the stack instant status
is going to be an OUTDATED.
So it could be an issue with insufficient permissions
in the target accounts for creating the resources
that are specified in your template.
Or the template could be trying
to create global resources, but they must be unique.
For example, if you have an S3 bucket,
the name should be unique and if you specified
a name in your template, then in one
of the stack instances it's going to work.
But in another account or another region,
it's not going to work because the name
will have already been taken by you, of course.
And so it could also be an issue with trust relationship.
For example, the admin account does not have
the required trust relationship with the target accounts.
Or for example, you're creating EC2 instances
and somehow in one of the target accounts
you've created one too many EC2 instance
and therefore, you'll have reached
a limit or a quota, and you will have
an issue with that specific stack instance.
So stacksets are a bit more difficult to troubleshoot
because you're deploying the same stack to many accounts
and, for some reason, for some accounts
it may not work again based on permissions,
quotas, resource names, and so on.
So it's something to have a look at
and something to be able to troubleshoot.
All right, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.